Recall from an earlier lesson,
that a vulnerability is a weakness in an information system,
system security procedures, internal controls,
or implementation that can be exploited or triggered by a threat.
A threat is something that can impact or harm a person or organization.
In this lesson, we explore possible vulnerabilities on a typical Windows system.
Here we'll look at three primary areas within
the Windows operating system that may contain vulnerabilities.
The first is shared folders and files.
Folders and files are often shared by users to
make it easier for others to view or modify them.
Windows makes this easy with its sharing function.
However, many businesses will also have a network drive that is shared to all users.
The threat, is that you don't always know who
may be able to see or change their contents.
Ransomware is another threat that will often try to lock
files shared on a network until the ransom is paid.
It's good to know what files and folders are shared on both a PC and across your network.
The second common Windows vulnerability is something known as Windows services.
In Windows, services are
all the little executable applications that often run continuously in the background.
They can be automatically started when a computer starts.
Trigger events can also start services like when you run a particular application.
If you ever wondered what happens under the covers of a Window system,
check out the services.
Services running that aren't needed can bog down a computer.
By the way, all types of computers has services running.
This isn't just a Windows thing.
There's also a potential security threat that running services can
allow unauthorized access to the computer or it's content.
Security analysts should be familiar with
common Windows services to determine if there's something running that shouldn't.
For example, if there's a remote access program
allowing anyone to remotely login to the PC.
The third potential area for Windows vulnerabilities is
unpatched software that contains known vulnerabilities.
A common area for applying cybersecurity is with the windows and application updates.
Recall from earlier lessons where you learned about vulnerability lists
found in the common vulnerabilities and enumeration or CVE list.
On the Microsoft Security Resource Center,
MSRC, Security Update Guide.
Malicious software is a continual threat for unpatched systems and applications.
Other threats include unauthorized access to the system or data,
or the disclosure of sensitive data.
All of these mean headaches for security analysts.
How do we check a Windows PC to make sure it's up to date?
In the exercise, you'll get to explore that.